In this video I'll cover the various
identity types that you can use for user
management within the experience cloud.
There are four types of
identities that can be used today.
There's a Federated ID.
This is the most strict
identity type that can be used,
followed by an enterprise ID.
A business ID and an Adobe ID.
When we look at different ID types really,
what an identity allows an organization
to do is control access to the license
applications that live within that IMS work.
So when we look at the Federated ID,
this is one of the most strict ways
that you can enforce that control,
because it's always organization owned,
controlled and what we mean
by that is the authentication.
Worship is typically done through
SAML integration and acclaimed
domain by the organization,
and so the only people
who can ever get added.
To the organization have to
be part of that domain name.
This also means the organization
owns and controls all of the assets
that may be created for coming
from the Creative cloud space
and you get all the robustness.
Typically that you would see around a
security and monitoring and password reset.
That's again governed by your organization.
When we get to Creative Cloud,
you'll see a little difference here
between creative and document.
Depending on what we're set up.
So if we're looking at this more from
an enterprise licensing standpoint,
Federated ID's are supported.
If you're looking at this more
from a team standpoint,
so I'm buying this just
for a small team of people,
then we wouldn't support the
Federated ID type and then always
supported across experience cloud.
The next type here is what's
called an enterprise ID,
so it's still organizational and control.
But the big thing that you'll see
here is that the authentication
ownership is really managed and shifted
here by Adobe on a claim domain,
so we're in a Federated ID.
The authentication is actually
owned by the organization that's
setting up their users, in this case,
at the Enterprise ID Adobe will
own and manage the authentication.
And therefore you start to see things
change as we kind of cut on the road.
Here.
When you look at from a security
and monitoring standpoint,
Adobe will provide its security
and monitoring such as content,
log sharing restrictions and password
policies that will enforce where you
have a little bit different aspect
here of when you go with the Federated ID.
There's more logging because the
companies ability to implement the
logging that they want using that XAML,
deep integration,
functioning behind the scenes.
Password control is managed through the
Adobe tool versus by the organization,
so that does mean that the password
will be different than what
your password might look like,
and you see the same support here
when we talk about the ID type
in creative and document cloud.
When you look at enterprise versus
looking at something for teams.
And then the next ID type and this
is probably what is most common that
you'll see most people set up and uses,
which is called an Adobe ID.
So this is a user created account.
If you went to the Adobe
website and created an account,
you get assigned what's called an Adobe ID.
So user controlled Adobe again
manages the authentication.
But it's on any domain,
so I can sign up with Gmail address
or Yahoo address or adobe.com address.
It doesn't really matter,
there's no enforcement here and therefore
that's what we call domain agnostic.
And again,
the user controls all the assets because
they're the ones managing the account.
The security monitoring stays the
exact same though as an enterprise
ID because it's just using it to be
infrastructure to manage these users.
So we give you the same access to the logs,
same sharing restrictions that you
can apply in password policies.
And the password management
again is provided by Adobe.
So there is a dual authentication
password reset flow where you'll see
a difference here is if we're talking
about creative and document cloud.
From an enterprise standpoint,
you can't have Adobe ID's here.
You have to be on an enterprise
or Federated ID for valid reason.
It is an enterprise license.
Therefore we need to make sure that
the organizations are enforcing
that only on the domains they want.
But it does work when you look at
more teams and again for across the
experience cloud. No difference now.
One of the challenges that you saw
with these three ID types is there's
often times that an organization
may be hiring out of sight of
their company for people to help
perform work within the tool,
and therefore what typically would
happen is you might see that they
would create an Adobe ID for a person
to work within their organization so
I can have Federated or enterprise.
Set up within my organization and
I can also if I so choose as the
administrator to add people with Adobe ID's.
The problem is is if that person ever
leaves the organization anything
that they've created within any
of those license applications may
be tide back to that Adobe ID,
and because they're no longer there,
I do not have rights sometimes
to that content.
This is you see the specifically
show up in the creative cloud space,
more so than anywhere.
And so Adobe has introduced a
new form of an ID,
which is called a business ID.
A business ID is a linked account,
so it's controlled by an organization.
So immediately shoves itself more into
a Federated enterprise ID tech mindset,
but it's always linked so I cannot just
have a business ID without it being
linked back to either an enterprise or
a Federated ID and doesn't necessarily
need to follow domain policy.
It depends again on how
you're setting this up,
but what this allows organizations
to do is if they're
implementing a Federated or enterprise
type ID for their user management.
I can also set up Jill,
who doesn't work for my company.
With a business ID,
Jill will have access to log into my
company suite of tools and use them,
and when I revoke her access,
anything that she has
created is now owned by me,
the administrator and the
company versus owned by Jill.
So in the creative cloud space
you can think of this very much
as I'm creating some assets.
Photos, graphics, logos,
things that I'm working on with the company.
I leave that company and those assets
were being created for the company.
Therefore the company should own or
retain the rights to those not Jill,
and so that's where the business
ID really comes in,
and so you'll see again here.
It's really built for creative and document
cloud from an enterprise standpoint.
So as those assets are being created,
they're being created on
behalf of that company,
and therefore they're owned by that company.
And that's a little bit
about the different types of
user access that you have.
Thanks.